feat: add docs for Jenkins metrics and traces to Signoz (#1393)
SigNoz/signoz.io: data/docs/cicd/jenkins/agent-node-monitoring.mdx

---
date: 2025-04-28
id: agent-node-monitoring

> title: Jenkins Host monitoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Jenkins Agent Node Monitoring
```

> description: Instrument Jenkins with OpenTelemetry and send traces & metrics to SigNoz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Instrument Jenkins with OpenTelemetry and send metrics to SigNoz
```

---

## Overview
This plugin integrates with the Opentelemetry Collector and Node exporter for monitoring of Jenkins build agents.

> It does this by deploying the Prometheus node exporter and Opentelemetry (Otel) Collector on job agents. The Otel Collector will scrape the metrics from node exporter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Jenkins](https://www.jenkins.io/) is an automation server that enables developers to build, test, and deploy their applications through continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) pipelines. This document will help you monitor your Jenkins build agents' metrics using SigNoz.
```

This overview was copy-pasted from this [doc](https://plugins.jenkins.io/opentelemetry-agent-metrics/) which doesn't align with the objectives of our doc.

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> - Jenkins [>2.479]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Jenkins (>2.479)
- Jenkins pipelines that you want to monitor
- Administrative access to Jenkins controller
```

Please comment and confirm if the last point are required or not ? If not, please remove them.

> ### Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup
```

> #### Step 1: Install Otel agent metrics plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Install OTel agent metrics plugin
```

> * For installation refer [here](https://plugins.jenkins.io/opentelemetry-agent-metrics/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For installing the plugin, please refer to [this documentation](https://plugins.jenkins.io/opentelemetry-agent-metrics/)
```

> * Navigate to Manage Jenkins -> System -> onMonit section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Now, navigate to **Manage Jenkins** -> **System** -> **onMonit** section
```

Reviewer: Will the user see the below image as a pop-up? Mention clearly what they will see after they follow the navigation you're suggesting.

<figure data-zoomable align="left">
    <img
        src="/img/docs/cicd/jenkins/agent-plugin-config.webp"
        alt="Node agent metrics plugin config"
    />
    <figcaption>
    <i>
    Node agent metrics plugin config
    </i>
    </figcaption>

> </figure>

Reviewer: Explain what this image is doing. Just looking at the caption, I can't understand what you're trying to depict.

Reviewer: Move this image to 2nd step as discussed.

> #### Step 2: Configure OTel agent metrics plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Configure OTel agent metrics plugin
```

> #### Agent node configuration required for the plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Agent node configuration 
```

> The plugin requires two binaries - **otel-contrib** and **node_exporter** to be installed on the jenkins agents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin requires the follwoing binaries:
- **otel-contrib**
- **node_exporter** 
These need to be installed on the Jenkins agents.
```

These executables can either be:

* present on the PATH of the agents

> * downloaded from a URL on the agents. For this the global plugin option **Artifact download base URL** must be configured.

Reviewer: How should it be configured? Is there any doc for it ? If yes, please hyperlink to that doc. If no, please explain how to configure it.

> * uploaded from the Jenkins master. For this the executables must be manually stored under the JENKINS_HOME directory in the opentelemetry-agent-metrics subdirectory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* uploaded from the Jenkins master. For this the executables must be manually stored under the JENKINS_HOME directory in the **opentelemetry-agent-metrics** subdirectory.
```

When was this subdirectory created? Was it created during the installation? If yes, please mention that " ... opentelemetry-agent-metrics subdirectory which was created during installation."

Reviewer: @Apurv11 please resolve

> more info about this from the Jenkins plugin [docs](https://plugins.jenkins.io/opentelemetry-agent-metrics/#plugin-content-example)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More information about these executables and their setup can be found in this [document](https://plugins.jenkins.io/opentelemetry-agent-metrics/#plugin-content-setup-the-executable-source).
```

Reviewer: @Apurv11 please resolve

> 

Reviewer: ## View metrics in SigNoz

To see your metrics, head over to the Metrics Tab in your SigNoz UI and search for your metric.

Reviewer: @Apurv11 please resolve

<figure data-zoomable align="left">
    <img
        src="/img/docs/cicd/jenkins/agent-metrics.webp"
        alt="Jenkins agent metrics on SigNoz"
    />
    <figcaption>
    <i>
    Jenkins agent metrics on SigNoz
    </i>
    </figcaption>

> </figure>

Reviewer: Explain in 1 line what this image is showing.

Reviewer: @Apurv11 please resolve

<figure data-zoomable align="left">
    <img
        src="/img/docs/cicd/jenkins/node-cpu.webp"
        alt="Node cpu metrics on SigNoz"
    />
    <figcaption>
    <i>
    Node cpu metrics on SigNoz
    </i>
    </figcaption>

> </figure>

Reviewer: Explain in 1 line what this image is showing.

## Conclusion

> This setup will allow monitoring of Jenkins agent metrics using jenkins OTel plugin on SigNoz

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Doesn't add any value. If there are any troubleshooting steps, please create a section for it and add those.
